so Aaron why don't you tell us a little
bit about yourself
sure well first of all I live out in the
middle of the country so internet is
very sparse down here so my name is
Aaron I'm from the Sharia education I do
do a show on skepticism socialism
anarchism communism that sort of thing
and we talk a lot about politics we talk
a lot about how we can reform and
basically use revolutionary tactics
towards finding a better system or
making a better system
I get sounds good so you had a
interesting beginning in your journey to
where you're at now how did you get here
right so okay so it's a long story
um when I was growing up I'm probably
gonna say I changed my ideology mostly
around 2012 something like that but up
until that point I was very much a
conservative leaning person I went so
far as to say that I was all light in a
couple of videos but I would actually
now that I've thought about it a little
bit more I'd even go further and say
that I was very much alright when I was
growing up and that came about from
basically living in a community that was
full of a lot of people that had very
mixed ideas on how race and gender and
class and that sort of thing worked my
parents were for lack of a better term
really quite racist people so it I kind
of adopted all of those stereotypes and
just kind of fell into the wrong crowd a
lot of the people that I associated with
were bonafide neo-nazis skinheads the
kind of guys that would go around
erecting and burning crosses and that
sort of thing and I've been around a
couple of times when they when they've
done that sort of stuff and it was it
was intense to say the least
but back in those days I was you know
rambunctious kid I was really interested
in a lot of that kind of stuff I thought
that it was edgy I thought that it was
cool I thought that it was interesting
in taboo so it made me
want to join with them and kind of roll
with those kinds of people and yeah it
it basically turned into being a very
difficult situation for a lot of people
just give you an idea of the kind of
people that have that I'm talking about
my one friend I'm gonna not use any
names obviously here's but one of the
friends that I had actually had an
incident where them and a couple of
their buddies went around the town
finding people that were married you
know two different colored people
interracial marriages and so forth and
planted shrapnel bombs on the front on
the front of their steps so they would
blow up when these people came to their
door luckily all of the people that were
doing that these neo-nazi kids were
about as dumb as bricks so they weren't
able to actually make the make the
shrapnel bombs go off properly but it is
some people did end up getting hurt from
it so these weren't good guys it was a
really bad yeah it was a really bad
situation and lots of other things too
like it was just it was really rough
okay a lot of vandalism lots of stuff
like that so it was a really rough crowd
and I thought to myself that all of this
stuff is just you know kind of normal
right like this is the normal that I
grew up with is just the way things were
and it wasn't until I started getting
out into the real world into like the
work force and that sort of thing and
really started to talk to other people
that I realized that everybody is just a
human being right it's not about
somebody being a certain color or
somebody having a certain religion or
somebody believing a certain thing it's
about us all being people and it's all
having to work together and live
together on this planet and we're just
trying to get by and I lost a lot of
those ideas when I started to progress
further into the work force and talking
to more people and moving around a lot
and that sort of thing Wow yeah planning
explosives is definitely a step up in
the escalation factor there
yeah yeah looking looking back at that
and then looking at the things that are
going on now like with milk shaking and
stuff I'm just like yeah okay shaking my
head a little bit when I'm thinking
about it and then so you kind of leave
this group and you start thinking about
things a little bit more in depth and
how did that I like I've still I mean
that transition its I mean we all like
but I mean that's a big one okay so I
guess that's really the beginning of the
whole transition through being that way
being very much a racist borderline Nazi
character to finally becoming what I am
today more of a revolutionary more more
of a person that's on the side of we all
need to get along and thinking more
communistical II about things but
getting there was a long long long road
right it took a lot of different factors
to actually get me to that point there
isn't a lot of people think that there's
some magic bullet out there that there's
some sentence that somebody is going to
be able to say that's just gonna
convince everybody around that this is
the right way to go about things this is
the right way to do things and there's
not right everybody is different and
they're all going to come to their
physicians in a different way my journey
had been a lot to do with skepticism
right I was a big time skeptic all
growing up so one of the things that I
noticed through YouTube and that sort of
thing is a lot of these people that I
used to idolize that were skeptics
weren't holding to the same kind of
skepticism when it came to other things
when it came to race when it came to
gender when it came to anything
basically other than religion and I
started to notice that because you know
I'm like you oh I'm one of the kind of
guys that will go out there and all
actually fact-check stuff and we're
trying not to swear here I'll actually
go and I'll try to fact-check stop stuff
and I'll try to find out if it's true so
when I hear something that I don't think
is necessarily correct then I'll go and
I'll check it out I'll find out if it is
true and and I'll make a decision from
there and I try to be into
actually rigorous even back then and if
I found an argument that convinced me
that was you know a good argument
good sound argument I would want to
change my mind but that's not everyone
man right like a lot of people have all
of these ideas made up over the course
of an entire lifetime and that lifetime
is really what defines that person as a
human being so when you already have all
of these things making you up as that
person and then you have that worldview
challenged right that's not only going
to disrupt your the way you think about
things that's going to make you angry
it's going to make you lash out and a
lot of people are very much that way so
luckily I was already this skeptically
minded person so when I heard
alternative arguments to the things that
I was saying I thought that they were
rather convincing my entire journey back
when I was very much right-leaning one
of the things that I was arguing for a
lot was the fact that one of my friends
couldn't wear a t-shirt in school that
had a great big swastika on it now I was
arguing back then that I think that it's
a good thing that he should be able to
go and wear this because he should be a
little able to wear things that say
white pride or that sort of thing
swastika is that sort of thing because
it's not only freedom of speech but also
on top of that hopefully I didn't lose
you oh that's right
so I was fighting this friend of mine
speak be able to wear this t-shirt with
the swastika and one of the arguments
that I was always making was that he
should be allowed to wear that because
people in my high school they were all
native people they were all wearing
native pride t-shirts so I thought well
that's absolutely ridiculous you can't
just be wearing a native shirt and get
away with that and not allow somebody
that's white to be wearing a white pride
allowing them to get away with that but
the problem is though is that I didn't
realize the cultural connotations that
came along with this this is all coming
from the broken mental faculties of
young
teenage boy who doesn't understand the
world who's looking at everything
through the lens of somebody who fell
ative life though I don't understand
that there's a lot of things that are
involved in just not just racism but
though power dynamic between white
people and black people or white people
and native people and that sort of thing
so I remember being back in summer
school fighting for this and almost
getting into a physical confrontation
with the teacher actually trying to
fight for this friend of mine to be able
to prepare three sorts of things and it
wasn't until later on in life that I
heard other arguments like when I gave
you moments ago about how there is that
power diamond and there is that that
that serious division between people
that is reinforced by state structures
and that sort of thing that really makes
not just fuse racist statements hurtful
but it perpetuates a problem throughout
the rest of society that continuously
pushes down on these certain individuals
and makes their lives harder so even
just me as an individual going out and
doing that definitely does make things
so that is how my journey basically
started and after listening to a lot
more skepticism and that sort of thing I
found myself mostly doing this journey
online because that's where I live I'm
very much an online person and I found
people like Richard the dick Kaufman and
he was just making really good arguments
against like stefan molyneux and i
thought that that was really interesting
I've seen people like Kevin Logan and
Christie winters who were if your
audience doesn't know many of these
people are that's fine they're people
who a lot of people would be calling
sjws or social justice for you and I
thought that a lot of the things that
they were saying though it was
aggravating to me and sometimes cringy I
thought they'd be fairly decent
arguments and it started pushing each
side and there's a lot of things that
did that as well learning more
social democracy and democratic
socialism through the Bernie Sanders
campaign and other youtubers that
covered that sort of thing even watching
some Young Turks videos which I would
probably never do now but back in those
days it did help me hear a different
opinion and actually get a different
idea of how those sides think and
eventually I started to realize that all
of this is basically just a bunch of
people that are looking at life through
certain lengths right when you're born
you're dumped into a box and everybody
is told that they have to stand there at
the bend and fight that wipe that off
but none of that makes any sense because
when you're born you're just a human
being with different kind of stresses
different kinds of pressures different
kinds of everything and everybody is
going to come out of that in a different
plane so me thinking that all of these
people were bad or not as good as I was
anything like that all throughout high
school and that sort of thing once I
started to hear about all of these other
arguments about how they had to fight
for social be all of these things with
Mark King and fighting for civil rights
and that sort of thing that started to
put a fire in my belly right it surged
make you really realize that not only is
this social justice thing though I
thought I would discourage you first not
only is it a good thing it's something
that we should all be fighting um so I
started to gear a lot of the things that
I was saying back in those days to words
being or social justice oriented and
trying to talk a little bit more about
the world through somebody who actually
cares about things instead of just being
cynical and saying that everything is
there
so we're yet now like what what it where
are if you had to label yourself and you
choose to what would it be
okay so I'm very open with my labels I'm
an anarchist anarcho being the
abolishment of all unnecessary or
unjustified higher fees and communist is
the workers control and ownership of the
means of production and I chose those
labels
because I feel that they are the most
fitting for the ideas that I've I deal
that I've always had so you will be able
to answer a question that pops up in the
comment section all the time tell me the
difference between communism and
socialism and anarcho-communism and and
all of it
break it down okay all right all right
so communism and socialism are the same
yet different right when you're in the
United States basically everybody
considers them to be the same exact
thing those two words are
interchangeable with one another but the
way that they were initially spoken
about was I'm not gonna say initially
but basically the the best way to
explain it is communism is basically the
goal whereas socialism is a path towards
that goal right so communism is for
those who don't know who don't think or
for those of you who have heard about it
you probably think that it's the spooky
thing that the Soviets and the Chinese
do and it's terrifying and you don't
want anything to do with it because it's
an oppressive regime well originally it
wasn't meant to be that originally it
was meant to be a stateless classless
moneyless society where were the workers
own the means of production that means
that they own all of the factories all
of the goods the birth and all of the
tools that are used to produce goods
inside of us inside of a system and they
run off of the axiom from each according
to the their ability to each according
to their need so that's what communism
is and that's the goal that people want
to eventually aspire to socialists for
the most part want an eventual communist
Society but to get there you need a
certain pathway right and that's where
socialism comes in now there's a lot of
people that are gonna be listening to me
right now saying that's not what any of
this means these mean totally different
things those aren't the right words that
this is the incorrect definitions
you're probably right there are millions
of different definitions for socialism
and communism for every different
country that there is there's a
different for every different socialist
country that there is
a different version of socialism being
instituted they're just like capitalism
there's a different type of capitalism
in every different country so just like
in Dubai you're going to have a
capitalist country that is radically
different from the ones the one that you
see in the United States so socialism is
the same way but generally socialism is
the pathway towards getting that
stateless moneyless classless society
and so it's basically looked at as a
transitional state if you're gonna put
this in economic terms socialism is the
social ownership of the means of
production whereas communism is the
worker ownership of the means of
production social ownership can mean in
many different ways so you can actually
have socialist states that are partly
socialist partly capitalist you can have
social programs which often get confused
with socialism itself which actually
lands moral on the side of the
capitalist side than post capitalist
so there are a lot of different types of
socialism there are a lot of different
isms when it comes to all of this and
it's extremely complicated so I'm so I'm
sorry if it is a little bit boring but
so so what is AOC AOC okay so a Oh see
that's a great question
AOC is something called a social
democrat now she'll call herself a
Democratic Socialist but that's not what
she is she's a social democrat and that
is because she is still technically a
capitalist she says that she want one
social program social change that sort
of thing but when she's talking about
those things she's talking to about them
in a reformist way she's talking about
them in a way where we can take this the
structure that we have now and tweak it
and alter it and change it and do all of
these technocratic solutions so we can
make it a little bit more palatable to
everyday people which if you ask anybody
who's post-capitalist they'll tell you
that's not gonna work it's just like
putting a band-aid on a bullet hole it's
just not going to help you at all but
that's basically what AOC is and that's
the same thing with Bernie Sanders
well Bernie Sanders is also a social all
right
so if you're an and calm and are narco
communist how's that different from the
original version of communism or is it
it's not right so as far as I'm
concerned we're more pure about things
right we like to think of things that's
more or less like we believe in the
original unfettered version uncorrupted
version of communism and that involves
the structure of power as well right so
when you're talking about communism and
we were talking about anarchism you're
talking about two different but
connected things communism is talking
specifically about the economy and how
the economy works whereas anarchism is
talking about power structures right so
communism that's how you deal with your
goods and anarchism is basically the
abolition of all unjustified or
unnecessary higher it doesn't mean
getting rid of all hierarchies that just
means finding all the ones that are good
and making sure that we keep those and
eliminating all of the bad ones right
right so you are a real leftist like by
the real term well I hope so but you
know what here's the thing though is
that is technically yes technically I'm
a leftist but the way that I like to
look at things is that it isn't
necessarily about left or right it's
about working people against the system
that is corrupted and pushing down on
all of us right I don't like to sow any
kind of division I don't like to say
conservatives are wrong because they're
conservatives I like to say
fed the same kind of propaganda that
everybody else is they're just wrong in
a different way right I think that
liberals are wrong too they're just
wrong in a different way we need to be
more welcoming and come together as a
people come together as all working
people and fight for the rights of
everybody rather than just allowing this
system to continuously push downwards
so if you had one solution to offer that
would help solve most or at least you
know a good portion of society's
problems it would be workers of the
world unite is that what I'm hearing
yeah I would definitely say that would
be useful but a practical solution would
be using something called worker owned
co-op
right now this is a more performance
solution but I definitely like to push
this idea because it's really smart a
worker owned cooperative
that instead of having one owner write
the capitalists that goes in and buys
the business and hires a bunch of
workers you have a group of people that
get together and work together to own
and control that business themselves so
that allows them to decide what they'll
produce when they'll produce how they'll
produce it and what they're going to do
with the profits which is fantastic
because if that's the case you don't
have one CEO a hundred miles away
collecting all of your money all of the
surplus labour values the money on top
of all of the money that you've made
that covers your labor cost and the cost
that run takes to run the business
they're taking instead of them taking
all of that money and putting that in
their pocket in a workers coop that
money is spread out through all of the
workers so you actually make more and
you get that added bonus of feeling like
you own something and I think that as
far as I'm concerned is the number one
solution that all post-capitalist should
be pushing towards right now as far as
reformist ideas go yeah and we're
actually starting to see a lot of those
pop up even here like in the boonies so
I've got to ask because I know it's
gonna show up in the comments section in
this worker owned co-op isn't there
gonna be a boss yeah absolutely yeah so
um it depends on how you want to set it
up so if you are a group of people say
you're just a couple of people that are
making shoes or jewelry or whatever it
is a commodity and you all know
basically what you need to do and
there's only three or four of you and
you can basically work together then no
you don't really need a boss
but that's where this whole justified
hierarchy system comes in if you find
out that there is the necessity of
having somebody there to organize
somebody there to delegate somebody
there to point people in a direction to
say this is what you need to do this is
how you need to do it this is where it
needs to go that's when you get somebody
that would be a boss but instead of just
having that person appointed by the
owner or whatever it is these people can
be democratically elected into positions
of authority it's called democracy in
the workplace and it allows all of the
workers to have democracy not just in
their daily lives in their their
everyday space voting on whatever it is
your mayor or your president or or
whatever you now get to vote on your
management on your bosses on your
supervisors on all of those sorts of
people that way if they make a mistake
they are 100% not only responsible for
it to you they're responsible to the
owners and to all of the employees as
well so it's a much better system it's a
much more democratic system and at the
end of the day they still have to wash
their dishes in the sink just like
everybody else does all right so give me
a topic of the day that you haven't done
a YouTube video on that you want to and
expound give us some some new content
[Laughter]
you know so I really wanting to do a
video about
the protests that have been going on in
China but my problem with doing a video
about and not been kicking around the
ideas in my head a lot but from with
doing a video about that is there is so
much propaganda on all sides
I just can't make heads or tails of it
and I'm not like you where I'm steeped
in all of this international politics
and just knowing how all that stuff
works like when I want to go research
something about a country I have to sit
there for hours learning everything
about that country because I've never
looked it up before because our
education system is broken right and we
don't learn about these sorts of
countries we don't learn about their
systems so if I wanted to a video on it
I have to do a whole bunch of this extra
research the problem with China is that
the United States wants to make China
look fat they want to make sure that all
of the narrative that is pushed in the
media makes sure that the government the
communist government is looking terrible
while all of these protesters are
looking like heroes and that sort of
thing not saying that they aren't I'm I
think that anybody fighting against a
repressive regime is absolutely
fantastic but there's no way for me to
just know what the real story is there
because we're just fed all of this
propaganda so much propaganda all of the
time that I don't even know really no
heads or tails well if it makes you feel
any better there are contractors who are
looking at that and going man because
there are a lot of there are a lot of
telltale signs that looks like there's a
lot of let's just say outside influence
in some of the protests and you know
nobody wants to come forward and be like
yeah do that and then find out that a
large portion of it was pushed by a US
agency when most of most the guys I know
and still talk to you have kind of
decided not to work for the government
anymore and they don't they don't want
to get it they don't want to cross that
line again but there's definitely you
know from the from the area experts and
people that we know that that really are
into China there's definitely a huge
organic component to
so you know I feel kind of bad because
I'm like this this seems real this seems
real on every level you have a whole
bunch of real complaints real people out
there in the street but because we're
seeing the fingerprints of outside
manipulation everybody's kind of holding
back and you know you don't want to go
full bore into supporting it and in a
way I feel bad because I'm like you know
this is something the the organic
protest should definitely be supportive
but how do you separate it from what's
being manipulated it's it's difficult it
is that that's a tough one I haven't
done a video on it yet touchy subject to
touch right because you want to get out
there and you want to be supportive of
personally I want to be supportive of
everybody that is fighting against any
power structure anywhere that's what we
need to be doing right we need to be
getting ready we need to be getting we
need to learn how to do that right so
and I think that that's wonderful what
is it astroturf is it being led on and
that's the thing right is a lot of the
military fact cooze done by the United
States or done by any other major
superpower always involves a certain
amount of people on the ground that are
actually angry and that actually have
real concerns that's how they that's how
they push those ideas as being
legitimate um with every lie if you have
a certain amount of truth in it it makes
it more real so and yeah that is a
really tough one to talk about but it's
telling that that's the one that we see
everybody talking about but we don't see
the genocide that's happening in Yemen
we don't see any of the attacks that are
happening throughout the rest of the
entire world we're only seeing these
things that well from it benefits the
United States to have got to trade on
their media that's just the way it is oh
absolutely I mean absolutely there's
there's no doubt that the UK and the US
are coming out way ahead in this battle
more so than even if the protesters come
out ahead with their grievances the US
and the UK are still going to be the
ones that really come out ahead
but yeah so what are you planning on
doing in the future your channel it's
growing I see it so where where you
headed you know okay so I started off my
channel just trying to do everything is
like relaxed and as easy as I possibly
could just trying to like get videos out
there sit down record something and go
and the way that I am I make things a
little bit more complicated a little bit
more complicated a little bit more
complicated until a point where now I
just finished filming a special
Halloween special that's basically like
a full-on movie it's like 23 minutes
long I went and shot all across the
entire province it was a lot of fun to
do but yeah if things get more
complicated so I'm just hoping that my
little cell phone camera videos aren't
gonna get more complicated because
that's already hard enough as it is I
honestly don't know how you put out a
video I don't sleep that's the thing
right you gotta be on on it all the time
always researching always knowing right
that's the thing about doing online
stuff too I'll just say is that you have
this expectation to be perpetually
correct with everything that you say and
that you always have to have some sort
of opinion on everything and it's like
sometimes I wake up and I'm like there's
just the only way to fix things is
through a full-on revolution why am I
talking about like this petty grievances
happening between a mirror and some
other guy like a hundred miles away none
of this matters but it does matter
because even though politics is very
stupid it is very important and it's
something that we unfortunately have to
pay attention to even though every
single day feels like someone is opening
up a full fire hose into your mouth of
information that is just possible to
deal with yeah yeah I can definitely
feel you on that one too
yeah there have been a couple of times
especially right after the latest thing
with what pack daddy you know my inbox
immediately filled up because that's
that is my area you know and it's like
they're wanting like an immediate
reaction to what's going on and what's
gonna happen and and like you know he's
not even cold yet you know give me a
minute let me figure it out let me talk
to some people find out what's going on
but there is that pressure to always be
100% correct and you're extrapolating
stuff from different sources and trying
to come up with the best guest that you
can and actually when I finally came
down to that one I'm like any of these
three things can happen but because we
don't have the information yet we don't
really know what happened before we
started the stream right is that news
crews and what we're doing is kind of
similar to like a news thing right it's
commentary but it is kind of news and
news crews have entire groups of people
that deal with editing they deal with
sound they deal with all this these
sorts of things they find you stories
and that sort of thing so it's so
difficult for independent creators like
you like me like Peter Kaufman and other
people to actually get out there and
produce really well research really well
thought-out content on a regular basis
without having that support behind us
like they do right like they Fox News or
blaze TV or whatever it is they have
millions millions of dollars behind them
and I'm just some sitting here in my in
my in my office like hoping that well
you know that's actually one of the
directions we're taking the podcast now
is where we're going
I've noticed that the what we're getting
the best solutions from the ground level
you know they've got millions of dollars
of research and millions of dollars at
their disposal and every channel is the
same there should be some variation
you know somebody should be coming up
with something ahead rather than just
regurgitating the same talking points
you know and the thing is too is it
actually reminds me of the way that
guerilla forces operate when they're
fighting against an overwhelming power
right like the United States military or
any other kind of military you have to
not think in the same ways that somebody
with unlimited money can think in right
right you have to be light on your feet
the the kid with the bolt-action rifle
on the top of the hill is going to be
able to get an entire military base to
expend millions of dollars worth of
ammunition at them by just throwing it
at them just by shooting a couple of
shots at them right with the hand action
rifle that's the kind of way that we
have to think about those sorts of
things as guerrilla tactics we have to
be able to be light on our feet and
running out there with our running shoes
on and not combat boots and hopefully
we'll be able to maneuver around it now
actually get you know a good solid
audience so parting shot got anything
you want to say to the audience you know
not a whole lot outside of that I am a
huge proponent of direct action if I
could ask anybody out there to do
anything it would be to not subscribe
not to donate though those things
definitely do help the production of the
shows and stuff like that but it is to
actually get out in the street and
yourself physically shown putting
physical bodies and physical spaces is
the only way that we're going to
actually see any sort of real reform any
sort of real change in the world and if
things are bothering you out there right
now if things are making it difficult
for you to live and you have the time
all right
a lot of us don't have the time but if
you do get out there and actually try to
make a difference because it's up to all
of us and we can't do it alone so you we
have to have the support from everybody
out there so definitely do that and if
you do get a chance check out my channel
it's re-education on YouTube
and we do a lot of really interesting
stuff there some of its pretty dramatic
some of its light-hearted and some of
its just me talking off the cuff and
swearing for about 20 minutes all right
all right sounds good so everybody
that's the conclusion of the interview
portion we'll be back shortly here in
just a minute